# Pros and Cons of present AI

## Pros of present AI

We may associate both a natural and a human-made system with a big set of discrete states. An AI system running on a fast computer can explore more of this state space than the human brain to determine desirable states. Furthermore, machines have the processing power to be more precise and the memory to store everything. These are the reasons why machine learning can outperform humans in bounded, abstract domains. Whereas, most such AI programs require vast labeled training sets generated by humans, one fascinating program, AlphaZero, achieved superhuman performance using reinforcement learning and Monte Carlo tree search. AlphaZero trained to play the board games Go, chess, and shogi without any human input (apart from the basic rules of chess) by playing many games against itself. Whereas a human learns mostly from experience, which is a relatively slow process, a narrow AI system can make many copies of itself to simultaneously explore a broad set of possibilities. Often, these systems can discard adverse outcomes with little cost.

## Limitations of present AI

AlphaZero and all other AI programs do not know what they do. They cannot transfer their performance to other domains and could not even play tic-tac-toe without a redesign and extensive practice. Furthermore, creating an AI solution with better-than-human performance requires much engineering work, including selecting the best combination of training algorithms, adjusting the training parameters, and testing the trained system. Even with reinforcement learning, AI systems are proxies for the people who made them and the specific training environments.

Most learning algorithms, particularly deep learning algorithms, are greedy, brittle, rigid, and opaque]. The algorithms are greedy because they demand big training sets; brittle because they frequently fail when confronted with a mildly different scenario than in the training set; rigid because they cannot keep adapting after initial training; and opaque since the internal representations make it challenging to understand their decisions. In practice, deep learning systems are black boxes to users. These shortcomings are all serious, but the core problem is that all narrow AI systems are shallow because they lack abstract reasoning abilities and possess no common sense about the world.

It can be downright dangerous to allow AI solutions to operate without people in the loop. AI systems can make serious mistakes no sane human would make. For example, it is possible to make subtle changes to images and objects that fool machine learning systems into misclassifying objects. Scientists have attached stickers to traffic signs , including stop signs, to fool machine learning systems into misclassifying them. MIT students have tricked an AI-based vision system into wrongly classifying a [3D-printed turtle as a rifle](https://arxiv.org/abs/1707.07397). The susceptibility to manipulation is a big security issue for products that depend on vision, especially self-driving cars.


